I've just spent the last week building
something that I honestly shouldn't be
giving away for free. It's an SEO plugin
for Claude Code and Co-work. Every day
it's watching search, AI answers, and
competitors as they change, so you know
exactly what you need to publish to rank
number one. Plus, every day you get a
list of revenue ranked SEO opportunities
ready to execute on. So, you spend less
time lost in the data and more time
actually executing. And with Co-work's
new scheduling feature, you can set this
up once and never have to touch it
again. You get SEO opportunities
delivered to you every single morning.
But it goes way beyond just keyword
research. When you've got an SEO
opportunity worth going after, it builds
agency quality SEO briefs with full
heading structures, internal links,
competitor analysis, people also ask
questions a lot. With SEO content
writing skills, you can even turn that
raw data into ready-to-publish SEO
articles. All you do is hit review and
publish. I think it's crazy that these
SEO providers can get away with charging
you hundreds of dollars a month just for
access to data. And half the time, you
don't even know what to do with it. If
you've got an agency, they're probably
charging you 10 times that. But this
plugin gives you 90% of what your SEO
agency does for 1% of the price. Stick
around to the end and I'll show you the
secret SEO API that gets you all the SEO
data you could ever need for a fraction
of what Ahrefs or SEMrush is costing
you. This plugin brings together the
best of the best in SEO frameworks
across keyword research, brief building
processes, and content humanization.
I've packaged all of it into this one
easy-to-download zip file that you can
set up in less than 5 minutes. Let me
show you what I built. I want to start
with the  find opportunities
command. If I open that up in Co-work,
it's going to give me a few different
options. But I'm just going to ignore
that and say find today's high-value
opportunities and press go. That's going
to get Claude Co-work to kick off. What
it's looking for is four different
layers of SEO analysis. The first one is
striking distance keywords. Those are
the keywords that you're ranking for in
positions 6 to 20 that are within
distance, things that we can optimize
for and get within the top five. Second
is competitive gaps, which are keywords
where none of the top results are
particularly strong and they can be
really easily ranked for. Low
competition, high opportunity. Third is
unowned topics, high-intent keywords
where no one is owning that opportunity
yet. And fourth is the one that really
sets it apart, it's AI visibility. This
plugin can tell you exactly where you're
ranking for particular keywords across
all of the major search providers.
That's Gemini, Claude, ChatGPT, and
Perplexity. It tells you exactly where
the opportunities are that you can go
and exploit. So, what's asking me here
is what topical angle should I focus on
the opportunity on? And I'm going to say
a wide net across all topics. But if I
had a particular niche or something that
I wanted to really target this search
on, I could definitely answer that
there. And then it's also asking me for
where I should recommend this data from.
So, it can support anywhere in the
world, but I'm just going to go United
States cuz that's the one that's
recommended for Anthropic. So, I'm going
to let Claude Co-work go to work here
and we'll come back once it's completed.
Cool. So, Claude's just finished pulling
together today's daily opportunity brief
and it looks really, really good. If we
go back through the or through the
history here, we can see Claude has done
a ton of really great research. First,
it started to read our site profile, our
competitors, and our brand voice to
inform what type of opportunities we
should be searching for. From there, it
went through and pulled a bunch of data
from DataForSEO, which it has sort of
concatenated here, but it's done a lot
of
domain searching, it's done heaps of
keyword suggestions, and just a massive
amount of research, much more research
than I could possibly do in the 5 or 10
minutes that took for this to run in the
background. So, you can see the steps
that Claude Co-work took over here. It
first started with the striking distance
keywords like we said before, then it
ran a competitor gap then it ran a
competitor gap analysis on OpenAI and
Google Gemini. And from there, it found
the seeds and
expanded seeds into discover unknown
topics that it could potentially
integrate as SEO topics. It then went
found the top three to five keyword
clusters and checked AI visibility for
how these were returning across ChatGPT,
Gemini, Perplexity. From there, it's
come and formed our really, really
important daily opportunities
[clears throat] report, which I
open here, is super, super user-friendly
and easy to read. We have a summary of
our daily opportunities as well as the
total value. Every single opportunity
returned in this report has a dollar
value against it, so you can prioritize
which ones are actually worthwhile
pursuing. But we can see here that
Anthropic has some strong brand keyword
positions, but it has some critical
blind spots in the developer tools and
AI education space. Gemini's code assist
now holds the number one for AI coding
assistant and Claude Code doesn't appear
in the top 10 organic results despite
ranking number eight for the shorter AI
coding query. Most concerning, neither
ChatGPT nor Gemini mention Claude Code
when asked about AI coding existence,
which, to be honest, is pretty expected.
Then we have our five opportunities that
it's come up with and we can actually
expand and see all of the different
gaps, visibility, and actions that we
need for each of our opportunities. So,
the highest priority opportunity that
Claude's found for us is that that
Google Code Assist owns AI coding
assistant and Google Code's invisible in
both organic search and LLM answers. The
gaps that it thinks that we can exploit
is that there's a head-to-head benchmark
data comparing coding assistants on
real-world tasks or some terminal native
versus IDE plugin architecture
comparisons. We can see our AI
visibility gap where ChatGPT is
recommending GitHub Co-pilot, Replit,
Ghostwriter, Gemini, bunch of different
tools, but neither of them are
mentioning Claude Code, Claude, or
Anthropic in any form. Next, we have the
actions, which is where we where Claude
is recommending that we create a new
piece of content for the Anthropic
website, which would be a comprehensive
AI coding assistant comparison, which
would position Claude Code's terminal
native architecture in a distinct
category. So, we got some really great
analysis here. It's given us a revenue
target of $11,000 per month if we can
rank higher for this keyword. It's also
given us our top keyword clusters and
the keyword difficulty across them all.
We have four other opportunities that we
can exploit.
Uh and you can feel free to pause the
video and read through them. So, for
each of these opportunities, we also get
the narrative, which explains why
there's a gap and why should we should
be exploiting this gap right now. And
it's all backed up by SEO data, which is
fed in from the SEO analysis skill. I've
pulled together the best keyword
research methodologies I could find and
package them into this skill. So, Claude
isn't just guessing with this data. It
has real methodologies from experts in
the field that it's using to come up
with these opportunities for us. So, one
of the coolest things about this find
opportunities command is that it
actually is keeping track of every
opportunity that it finds, so it's never
serving the same opportunities to you
again and again. It's either going to
say there's no new opportunities or it
will give you the list of the current
ones that you haven't yet actioned. Let
me show you exactly how this works. So,
every time we use the  find
opportunities command, Claude is either
creating or updating the
opportunities.md file, which is saved
inside the SEO directory. Don't worry,
I'll show you exactly how this SEO
folder looks at the end of this entire
process so you can see just how
organized Claude makes all of this. So,
I can see it here in the right-hand side
of Claude of Co-work and it's actually
listing all of the different
opportunities that it found as part of
that analysis, as well as a brief
summary of the keyword clusters, what
the priority was, and the value of that
opportunity. But the most important
thing is the status. If it has a new
status, that means we haven't created a
brief for it, nor have we gone and
created an actual article. But as we go
and write each of those subsequent
commands inside of Claude Co-work or
Claude Code, Claude comes back and
updates this opportunities.md file with
all of the context. That way Claude
stays up to date with exactly what's
going on with the opportunities, what
it's recommended, what you've acted on,
and then you can even dismiss these
opportunities. Say you're no longer
interested in it or you think it's a bad
idea. That way Claude learns over time
exactly what opportunities you're
interested in and what it should be
prioritizing. Cool. So, next thing I'm
going to do is take one of these
opportunities and create an agency
quality SEO brief with it. A proper SEO
content brief doesn't just include a
list of keywords. It's an entire
research package that gives the writer
everything they need to know in order to
rank with their content. It contains the
heading structures, competitor analysis,
the expected length of the article, FAQ
sections, everything that you need to
write a good article. Obviously, we
don't have this as part of the
opportunities, so we need to do some
more in-depth research with the
opportunity that we select. So, rather
than go and select one myself, I'm going
to have Claude suggest the highest
priority one that we should action. I'm
going to use the  create brief
command to ask Claude for the highest
priority opportunity. So, Claude's just
finishing up with that brief and it
looks incredible. It's gone through and
done some really, really impressive deep
research on the keywords, whether that's
long-tail and question-answer pairs, as
well as the people also ask data. It's
gone ahead and scraped the top five
competitor articles, found their
headings, word count, ranking keywords,
and then gone and
found us exactly how we can position our
article to beat them in search. It's
then generated us a really beautiful and
easy-to-read content brief in HTML here.
We can see that our word count is about
6,700
words or longer. Lead volume is about
12,000 per month and the keyword
difficulty is 48. It's analyzed three
competitors and given us all of our
primary keywords. So, AI coding
assistant, AI coding, all of the words
that we need to incorporate in this
article in order to rank, as well as all
of our long-tail keywords. It's given us
our questions and people also ask. It's
given us some really, really impressive
research. This is the type of research
that you would pay three to $500 to an
agency for. And we're getting it for
less than a dollar using the data
DataForSEO API. We can also see all of
the auto-complete and related searches.
And this is gold for SEO. This is our
competitor analysis. We can see it's
gone through and read all of the top
three competitors, given us their
heading breakdown, and presented that
back to us in this beautiful UI where we
can click through and see where we can
see exactly how our competitors are
structuring their articles. We can also
see our word count comparison and our
target word length of 6,700 words, as
well as the competitor landscape. And
then it's actually given us our
recommended headings structure. You can
see this is really, really in-depth, all
of our H2s and H3s, as well as the
rationale for action for these
recommendations. And even better than
that, it's even given us our internal
links. Because the plugin has been able
to scrape our entire website and knows
all of our blog posts as part of the
onboarding flow, it can actually find
and recommend the best articles to link
to each other. It's also given us some
writing notes and some meta tags, all of
the information that we would need to
hand this off to either a professional
writer or to Claude to write and execute
into an SEO article ready for the
website. Now, this report is in HTML,
but if you wanted to send this to
someone, you could just download the
HTML and send it, but because we're in
Claude CoWork, we can even ask it to
convert it to a PDF for easy sending.
And it's that easy. Now we have a PDF of
our content brief ready to send off to
whoever we wanted to or just save for
later. But as you know, SEO plugin
doesn't stop there. It can actually turn
these briefs from research into
ready-to-publish content, and that's
what I want to show you now with this
next command. So I'm going to type
write content for the AI coding
assistant brief and press let's go.
Claude is going to jump into action,
read that entire brief that we just put
together, all of the research across all
of the different sources, our
competitors, and bring it together into
a humanized piece of SEO content ready
to go out onto the website. Once again,
I've brought together all of the best
humanization techniques from across the
internet, and I've brought I've merged
it into a single skill, which Claude is
going to leverage here to create a
really, really high-quality output that
you could just review very briefly and
then put out onto your website. It's
even leveraging the EEAT framework that
Google uses to establish authority in
SEO articles. It's not just writing
human content, it's writing
SEO-optimized content based on all of
our research and the best frameworks
that are available right now. The write
content command takes that entire brief
and turns it into a ready-to-publish SEO
article. It's using the best content
humanization frameworks to find and
detect all of the AI patterns that just
give away that this was written by AI
and remove them. It's also feeding in
your brand profile and brand voice to
make sure that this content actually
sounds like you and isn't just AI slop.
It even spins up a independent sub-agent
to review the article against all of the
research that we have done as part of
the opportunity and brief and our best
practices for technical SEO to make sure
that the output is actually ready to
publish. It's super impressive. And what
you get is a markdown file ready to
action inside of your CMS. We have a
monster 6,700
word document here, complete with meta
descriptions at the top. The heading
structure matches the brief exactly. We
have our keywords, which are placed
naturally. The primary keyword is in the
first 100 words and at least one H2 and
a density that won't trigger
over-optimization flags. And before it
saves, it runs an independent quality
review with a sub-agent with a
completely different context, going
against a checklist that is inside the
skill. So this article just needs a
little bit of human review and it's
ready to go out on the website. Just
copy and paste. That sub-agent fixes
anything that's off just before you even
see it. So all you have to do is review
and publish. Now that we've seen the
plugin in action, let's get this thing
installed on your computer. The first
thing you want to do is go to the link
in the description below. It's
completely free to download this plugin.
Just hit that link and you'll be taken
to a quick little email form and then be
redirected straight to the zip file
download. Once you have that downloaded,
come back here and we'll install it. So
the plugin can work in either Claude
Code or Claude CoWork. So you can use
this wherever you're feeling
comfortable, but I'm going to show you
how to install this on Claude CoWork
first. So we're going to go over to the
customize tab inside of Claude CoWork.
Once we're in there, we're going to hit
browse plugins.
On the browse plugins tab, we're going
to want to go to personal and then the
plus button here and then upload plugin.
Now we can go to the browse files button
and go to the SEO.zip folder, which has
been which you have downloaded already.
So I'm going to open that one up and
press upload. It's going to show a
warning because one of the MCP servers,
Data for SEO, is running locally on your
machine. That just means that there's no
remote-hosted MCP and that the API calls
are going to be happening from your
computer rather than from other server.
It's nothing to worry about. You can
just press continue. Sometimes I've
noticed Claude CoWork is showing this
error when adding in new plugins. That's
not a real error. You can just X out of
it and the plugin's been installed
properly. We can see that we have our
SEO plugin within our personal plugins
tab and we can click through and see the
commands, connectors, and skills that
make up this plugin. We can't get
started with it just yet. The first
thing we need to do is set up the
connectors because this plugin relies on
data from an SEO source and Firecrawl in
order to work optimally. You don't
necessarily need to have Firecrawl in
order to get this to get the plugin to
work. It can still use web fetch from
within Claude, but it works so much
better if you connect Firecrawl and a
good SEO provider. I have Ahrefs,
SEMrush, and Data for SEO all
pre-configured. And if you're using one
of these already, just go ahead and
click the one that you're configuring.
If you are just getting started, I would
strongly recommend that you use Data for
SEO over the other two just because the
other two require very expensive ongoing
subscriptions and Data for SEO is a
pay-as-you-go
API and it is so cheap. Let me show you
how to set up the Data for SEO MCP and
then from there we can get started with
the onboarding. So you want to go down
to the Data for SEO MCP and press edit
and then open in VS Code or Cursor. Now
you might have some other options there
or you might have no options at all. If
you don't have any options at all, go
show in folder and then open it in your
notepad. But for me, I have VS Code
installed, so I'm going to hit VS Code.
Press yes on that warning and this is
going to open us up into the
MCP.json
file. All this file is is the
configuration of MCP servers that this
plugin is going to use. So we have a few
options that we'll recognize from the
previous screen, Ahrefs, SEMrush,
Firecrawl, and Data for SEO. If you're
using Ahrefs or SEMrush, there is
nothing you need to configure in here.
The only thing we need to configure is
Firecrawl and Data for SEO. Let's get
started with Data for SEO first. You can
see that we need to configure our
username and password for Data for SEO.
So if you don't already have an account,
you can go ahead and sign up for one.
There is a link in the description below
to sign up and by doing so, you support
the channel. So now that I'm in my
dashboard and for Data for SEO, I'm
going to go down to the API access tab.
Here is our API login and password. So
we want to copy and paste our API login
and then we also want to copy and paste
our password. So if you have a brand new
account, you'll be able to copy it from
here. If you don't, then you'll need to
hit send by email in order to get that
password sent to you. Once you've got
those, you can go back into the
MCP.json file and add them in here. You
just want to add them in between
the quotation marks there. So once
you've got that, I'm just going to add
some default values here
and then press just so you can see what
it needs to how it needs to look. Then
you need to go to the Firecrawl MCP if
you're using that. As I said, it's
optional to use Firecrawl, but I really
recommend it because it lets us scrape
way more pages off competitors and of
your own site so we Claude gets a
clearer idea of what your brand voice is
and also what your competitors are
doing. So all we need to do is add in
our Firecrawl API key, which we can also
get from the Firecrawl dashboard. So if
you don't have
Firecrawl account either, there will be
a link in the description below to sign
up for one. Once you're in the
dashboard, you can go and copy the API
key and you can paste that back into
this section here. You just want to get
rid of those curly brackets and put your
API key there. Now both Firecrawl and
Data for SEO have really good trial
plans. So I think Firecrawl gives you
about 500 credits when you sign up and
Data for SEO gives you $1 of API
credits. That will last you enough for
testing just to make sure so you can
prove that this plugin is going to work
for you. And then from there, you'll
have to sign up for an account for
Firecrawl and just load some API credits
for Data for SEO. The Data for SEO
credits, I think you have to load a
minimum of $50, but it's going to last
you so long. It is a really, really
cheap service
data, so much cheaper than Ahrefs or
SEMrush. But if you are using Ahrefs or
SEMrush, you can still use those ones.
You just need to head back into Claude
over here, press connect and install,
and that'll take you to sign in to your
Ahrefs account and from there, away you
go. Once you've got your connectors set
up, you'll need to go back to Claude
CoWork. Now there is a little bug in
Claude CoWork at the moment, so it might
be better off just to head it off now
rather than have any push issues. You
want to quit out of Claude CoWork and
then reopen it and all of the plugins
will appear. It doesn't happen all the
time, but it does happen some of the
time, especially with the connector
setup. So I'm going to go and update all
my credentials in the setup and then
I'll meet you back here and we'll get
started with the onboarding. So once you
have all your credentials saved, there
is just one more thing that you need to
set up if you're using Data for SEO. If
you're not using Data for SEO, then you
don't need to worry about this. So
you'll need to make sure you have Node
installed. You're going to go to
nodejs.org and I'll have the link to
this in the description below,
completely free, and you just go get
node and download it for your machine.
Never have to really open this up.
Claude will just use this in the
background to run the MCP server. Cool.
So, once you've got all your connectors
configured, we're going to set up our
directory for where we're going to be
working for SEO content. So, whether
you're using Claude CoWork or Claude
Code, this is the same. You're going to
want to set up a folder somewhere on
your machine where you can keep all of
your SEO data. I'm going to create a
folder inside of my work folder and I'm
going to call it SEO. So, this is where
Claude CoWork or Claude Code will have
access to to run all of the scripts and
create all the files that we're going to
create as part of our SEO plugin. So,
once I've created that, I'm going to go
back to Claude CoWork and go work in a
folder and I'm going to choose a
directory. Cool. So, I'm going to select
my SEO folder and hit open. And then,
Claude CoWork is going to ask me whether
I'm going to allow Claude to change
files in this folder. So, this is part
of the reason why we only want to use
one specific folder because we don't
want Claude CoWork going crazy on the
rest of our machine. So, I'm going to
hit always allow. From here, we can
finally start to use our SEO plugin. So,
I'm going to go  start here
and start the onboarding process. So,
Claude's asking me for a three things
and that's going to get us started with
the SEO plugin. It's our website URL,
our average deal size, and two to five
of our main competitors. So, that's
super easy. For my test, I'm going to
use anthropic.com.
Uh my average deal size, let's say
$100,000 for an enterprise deal, and my
two to five competitors are OpenAI and
Gemini.
That's all I need to set. And then from
there, Claude will go and set all of
this up for me. Cool. So, we've just
finished running the onboarding work
flow that took about 5 minutes and now
we have our files all set up ready to
start using the find opportunities,
write brief, and write content commands.
But first, I just want to show you
exactly what Claude did so you can
understand what type of research is
going into this plugin so that you're
not just getting AI slop outputs. You're
actually getting SEO content that sounds
like your brand all of the analysis from
your competitors and your own site is
working as you want it to. The first
thing Claude does is go through and map
all of the pages on on your website and
note all of the blog pages that you have
currently. From there, it finds the
highest ranking pages at the moment and
goes and scrapes them so then it can
come up with your brand voice, which we
can see here in the brand voice
document. This is a really in-depth
document that tells Claude exactly how
your content should sound. We have the
who we are versus who we are not and a
few other examples of tone and rhythm
and structure, your POV, how you're
calibrating your blogs, and some example
phrases that are are used all the time.
So, this gives your content a really
human feel because it sounds and feels
like your brand already and it gives
Claude all of the context it needs to
inform everything else it does in the
rest of the SEO plugin. There are two
other files that also get returned.
That's the site profile. So, this is
just some baseline SEO information about
Anthropic or about your website. So, it
gives us our domain, the average deal
size, when it was founded, some of the
domain metrics, as well as the current
content inventory. So, we can see we
have 92 news pages in the blogs, 80
research pages, 12 engineering pages.
From there, it also ranks all of the
pages by traffic and then the top
keywords by search volume, as well as
all of our striking distance keywords at
the moment. get updated as these metrics
change when you're using the find
opportunities and research and brief
building commands.
There's one last MD file created as part
of the onboarding and that is your
competitors. So, this would be all of
the competitors that we listed earlier.
So, we have OpenAI and just some notes
about what they're doing, their domains
Claude would need to do in order to do
competitor research down the track. So,
I've only given two competitors here,
but you can obviously go and add as many
competitors as you like and Claude will
do all the research for you. So, that's
the onboarding or start here command.
The start here command also acts as like
a help me command. So, if you're ever
wondering, you know, what should I do
next or how do I use the plugin, you can
always use start here. So, the next one
I'm going to show you is the find
opportunities command, which I think is
the most exciting command.
There's one more thing I want to show
you as part of this setup and that's how
you can get this entire SEO plugin to
work independently so you never have to
touch it again once you've set it up.
That's using Claude CoWork's new
scheduler, which is brand new and lets
you run Claude commands and plugins
completely independently. So, you get
prioritized outputs automatically. So,
inside of CoWork, I'm going to head over
to the schedule tab and I'm going to go
new task. So, let me fill this out and
I'll talk you through it. So, I've just
configured this new schedule task. I've
named it daily SEO opportunities and
I've given it a short description. The
prompt is very, very simple because all
of the prompts heavy lifting happens
within the  commands and skills
that is part of the plugin. So, I've
just asked it to use the SEO plugin and
the find opportunities command to find
today's highest priority SEO content
opportunities and then go through and
create that brief. I've selected the
model I wanted to use and I've gone with
Opus 4.6 and then I've also selected the
folder that we're working in. This is
super important because all of our brand
context is living within this SEO folder
that we've created. And then, I've
selected the frequency as daily and I'm
going to select the time as 9:00 a.m.
and click save. So, the important thing
to know about these schedule tasks is
that your computer has to be on for
these to run. So, that's the only
caveat, but every day at 9:00 a.m., I'll
get this new brief created and saved.
And if you're wondering after all of
that, where all of these files are being
saved, it's right here in that SEO
folder that we set up. So, we have our
brand folder and our campaigns. Inside
of our brand, we have our brand voice,
competitors, site profile, all in
markdown files ready for Claude to read.
And then we also have our campaigns. So,
the campaigns folder always stays nice
and organized because everything is
organized by the day of the run. So, we
have today, the 1st of March, where I
have my daily opportunities, the brief
that we came up with both in HTML and
PDF format, and the final article which
we came up with.
Outside of that daily folder, we have
the opportunities.md
file, which sits at the root of the
campaigns folder and that's where Claude
keeps track of all of the campaigns that
all of the opportunities that we've come
up with, which ones have been actioned,
which ones have had briefs written, and
which ones have had articles written.
Every time we do anything inside of
Claude CoWork or Claude Code, it's being
saved right here in the SEO folder. So,
that was the plugin. It's everything you
need to turn Claude into an SEO
powerhouse and maybe even fire that
agency. If you enjoyed, please like and
subscribe. The link for the plugin is in
the description below. All I ask is that
you give me your email. I promise that I
will not spam you. Thank you so much for
watching. I'll see you in the next one.
Bye.